Now that you have been introduced to the SMART framework for asking questions, pause to apply what you are learning. In this self-reflection, you will consider the questions you would ask in a specific scenario. 

This self-reflection will help you develop insights into your own learning and prepare you to apply your knowledge of the SMART question framework to your own data investigations. As you answer questions—and come up with questions of your own—you will consider concepts, practices, and principles to help refine your understanding and reinforce your learning. You’ve done the hard work, so make sure to get the most out of it: This reflection will help your knowledge stick!

The scenario

You are three weeks into your new job as a junior data analyst. The company you work for has just collected data on their weekend sales. Your manager asks you to perform a thorough exploration of this data. To get this project started, you must ask some questions and get some information.

SMART questions

As a refresher, SMART questions are:

Specific: Questions are simple, significant, and focused on a single topic or a few closely related ideas.

Measurable: Questions can be quantified and assessed.

Action-oriented: Questions encourage change.

Relevant: Questions matter, are important, and have significance to the problem you’re trying to solve. 

Time-bound: Questions specify the time to be studied.

Next, you will use the SMART framework to ask effective questions about the scenario above. Then, you will reflect on the topics your SMART questions should address.

Ask the right type of questions

You can apply the SMART framework to all types of questions. The type of questions you ask can help you explore deeper with your data. Consider the ways your questions help you examine objectives, audience, time, security, and resources.

Some common topics for questions include: 

Objectives

Audience

Time

Resources

Security

Think about how you can ask SMART questions about each of these topics.

Reflection

Consider the scenario above:

Based on the SMART framework, which questions are most important to ask? 

How will these questions clarify the requirements and goals for the project?

How does asking detailed, specific questions benefit you when planning for a project? Can vague or unclear questions harm a project?

Now, write 2-3 sentences (40-60 words) in response to each of these questions. Enter your response in the text box below.




Based on the SMART framework, what's the goal of analysing weekend sales data, what's the time-frame of the collected data are some important questions to ask for.

Answer to the goal of analysing weekend sales data will enable me to develop a mental framework on what to do with the data. Similarly the time-frame of the data will help me infer patterns or categories if the stakeholders want me to analyse the data in such way.

Asking detailed questions of course helps me when planning a project. But it is also the hardest step to do in my opinion. But further practice and real life usage will improve this skill in my opinion.
