1. Consider the different types of dashboards: 

How are the different types of dashboards similar to each other?

In what ways do they differ?

Write 2-3 sentences (40-60 words) in response to each of these questions. Enter your response in the text box below.


The dashboards are similar in the way that they use data, metrics. Maybe often from the same data source.

They're different in the way of which stakeholders want which type of dashboards and how they want to interact with the dashboards. And dashboard designers design them with appropriate data and insights.


✔ Correct
Great work reinforcing your learning with a thoughtful self-reflection! A few commonalities in these examples include: 

Dashboards are visualizations: Visualizing data can be enormously useful for understanding and demonstrating what the data really means.  

Dashboards identify metrics: Relevant metrics may help analysts assess company performance.

Some differences include the timeframe described in each dashboard.  The operational dashboard has a timeframe of days and weeks, while the strategic dashboard displays the entire year. The analytic dashboard skips a specific timeframe. Instead, it identifies and tracks the various KPIs that may be used to assess strategic and operational goals.




2. Now that you have considered the different types of dashboards, think about the impact that dashboards can have on a company:

What is an example of a data source a company might use with a dashboard?

How would a company benefit from a dashboard that uses this data?

What industries or businesses might benefit from using dashboards more than others?

Now, write 2-3 sentences (40-60 words) in response to each of these questions. Enter your response in the text box below. 


A data source to incorporate in a dashboard might be click metrics on related article links in a web page of a website.

With a dashboard for click metrics and common keywords in the article names, the website owner might gleam into the correlation of behaviour of traffic with certain article titles that contain the keyword. Then the website can provide more engaging articles/web pages that might attract even more traffic.

Fast moving businesses like sales, marketing and industries like fashion are the most common audience and consumers of dashboards in my opinion. While slow to react to trends or trend-setter industries might not need dynamic visualisation of metrics and data.


✔ Correct
Thank you for your response! Dashboards can help companies perform many helpful tasks, such as:

* Track historical and current performance.

* Establish both long-term and/or short-term goals.

* Define key performance indicators or metrics.

* Identify potential issues or points of inefficiency.

While almost every company can benefit in some way from using a dashboard, larger companies and companies with a wider range of products or services will likely benefit more. Companies operating in volatile, or swiftly changing markets like marketing, sales, and tech also tend to more quickly gain insights and make data-informed decisions.